It's a
place the Israeli
military doesn't want us to see.
CNN has gained
exclusive evidence
of Palestinian prisoner abuse
from multiple Israeli whistleblowers.
At the Sede Teman facility
in southern Israel.
We joined human rights activists
amid growing
public concern
for the detainees being held inside.
This is a protest by Israeli citizens
outside a detention center close to Gaza,
where we know
hundreds of Palestinians have been held.
You can see it's a closed
military facility.
It's behind the barbed wire fence.
We're not permitted access,
and there's hostility from passers by.
We just had somebody drive past in a car
and they shouted out to us in Hebrew,
you're defending murderers.
No defending. What do you feel?
We're defending basic human rights.
And eyewitnesses are now speaking out.
Way from the
military facility
near the beaches of Tel Aviv.
One young Israeli army reservist
agreed to speak
about scores of detainees at city to man,
he says are kept in cages or pens,
constantly shackled and blindfolded,
many for weeks on end.
We've hidden his identity and voice
to shield him from prosecution.
We were told
they are not allowed to move
and must sit upright.
They're not allowed to talk
or peek under their blindfolds.
And what happened
if they if they did do that?
What kind of punishments were meted out?
We were allowed to pick out
problematic people and punish them.
Having them stand with their hands
above their heads for an unlimited time.
If they didn't keep their hands up,
we could zip tie them to the fence.
These really military says
detainees are handcuffed
based on their risk
level and health status,
but the account tallies
with photographic evidence
obtained
by CNN of Palestinian detainees inside
Sede Teman
and with hand and wrist
injuries shown
to CNN by dozens of Palestinians
released back into Gaza.
I was zip tied and blindfolded, says this
former detainee,
and tortured in a way I never imagined.
One source
telling us the restraints were so tight
that to amputate a man's hand.
The view that I've heard expressed
is that,
you know,
how do you think Israeli hostages
are treated by Hamas?
This sentiment was voiced
in the facility.
But I think that
if Hamas is so abominable,
which I agree with,
then why use Hamas as a bar?
It's a descent into dehumanization.
A descent that's accelerated
since the rampage by Hamas
on October the 7th last year.
The killing, an abduction
to Gaza of hundreds of Israelis,
provoked outrage and a brutal response
made Israel's wrath.
Tens of
thousands of Palestinians
have been killed.
And thousands detained for interrogation.
Transported to facilities like
Sede Teman
where one Israeli guard
tells CNN prisoners are routinely beaten.
We've hidden his identity and voice, too.
You can take them out and hit them
maybe 4 or 5 times with a club.
It's not done in the face
so you don't see blood.
The detainees lie belly
down, being hit and kicked,
people screaming
and dogs barking at them.
It's terrifying.
Some detainees are taken away
and beaten really hard.
So bones and teeth are broken.
So you saw people who were subject to
these beatings,
had their bones broken,
and you had their teeth broken.
Yes.
It's a practice
which commanders know about.
They want intelligence,
but they also want revenge and punishment
for what happened on October 7th.
The Israeli
military hasn't approved CNN's requests
for access to Sede Teman
the gates of the facility.
We challenged the Israeli guards.
This is a facility.
As we leave, masked soldiers approach.
in the property of, of the army.
they tried to take our cameras.
Then order us to leave.
Well, we're driving now
to meet one
Israeli with personal experience of this.
A day time and facility.
It's experience that he says
has left him
shocked at the condition
and the medical treatment
of Palestinian detainees that
he told us he treated
Palestinian detainees
with gunshot wounds
fresh from the war zone in Gaza,
but was appalled at the lack of equipment
and expertise.
The problem is Gazans who are brought in
are labeled as terrorists,
and it is very popular opinion over here
that terrorists deserve to die.
So they do not deserve
the same medical care as everyone else.
Satellite imagery obtained by CNN shows
how the Sede Teman facility
was expanded
after the October 7th attacks,
with detention facilities
and makeshift
medical bays being added
after public hospitals in Israel refused
to treat injured guards and suspects.
Eyewitness accounts describe a field
hospital with 15 to 20 patients,
virtually naked and blindfolded,
with hands and feet
shackled to their beds
and wearing diapers.
What eye witness told CNN
painful procedures were carried out
by underqualified medics.
Treatment,
the medical worker
told us, amounts to punishment.
In my view,
it's the idea of total vulnerability.
If you imagine being unable to move,
being unable to see what's going on.
That's something that borders,
if not crosses into
psychological torture.
The Israeli
military says
prisoners are stripped
for security checks,
and that investigations are opened
when there's suspicion of misconduct.
Still,
the counts
from Israelis and Palestinians inside,
and the shocking images
paint a disturbing picture.
Matthew Chance, CNN at Sede Teman
in southern Israel.